Docs: Improve Landing Page (#1520)
man-group/ArcticDB: docs/mkdocs/docs/index.md

 ![](images/FullWithBorder.png)

## What is ArcticDB?

ArcticDB is a serverless DataFrame database engine designed for the Python Data Science ecosystem. 

> ArcticDB enables you to store, retrieve and process DataFrames at scale, backed by commodity object storage.

Reviewer: I would keep the `(S3-compatible storages and Azure Blob Storage)` bit.
Not everyone knows what is an object store.

ArcticDB requires *zero additional infrastructure* beyond a running Python environment and access to object storage and can be **installed in seconds.**

ArcticDB is:

- **Fast**

>     - Process millions of rows per second

Reviewer 2: Yes, all the time, across consumers and up to 100M for a single consumer.

    - Quick and easy to install: `pip install arcticdb`
- **Flexible**

>     - No data schema is needed

Reviewer 3: This might be a bit misleading, as it's somewhat both right and wrong. As you note below append and update are not schemaless, but each write changes the schema. This requires us to start explaining dynamic vs static schema, which is advanced topic. I'm not sure we need it on the landing page. The landing page should be as small and concise as possible.

Author: That is covered further down

    - Supports streaming data ingestion
    - Bitemporal - stores all previous versions of stored data

>     - As easy to get started as using files

Reviewer: I would reword this line as something like:
`Easy to setup both locally and on cloud`

    - Scales from dev/research to production environments
- **Familiar**

>     - ArcticDB is the world's simplest database

Author: True. That was already on the landing page actually. Has anyone seen a simpler database? I haven't

>     - ArcticDB is the world's simplest database

Reviewer 2: Well, embedded databases perhaps.  Simplest multi-user database?

    - Easy to learn for anyone with Python and Pandas experience
    - Just you and your data - the cognitive overhead is very low.

> #### Transactions: Are They Overrated?

Reviewer: The following sound better to me:
#### Transactions: Are They Overrated?
(This can be omitted)- Transactions can be expensive and slow
- Most analytical workflows can be constructed to run without relying on transactions
- So why pay the cost of transactions when they are often not needed?
- ArcticDB doesn't support transactions because it is designed for high throughput analytical workloads

Reviewer 3: I too have issue with this. 
* `Transactions: Are They Overrated?` the heading sounds a bit harsh. Almost like we're attacking a well established concept that's been in the software industry for years.
* We start with a question and don't give clear answer

Reviewer 2: My take: Atomicity, Consistency and Durability are not overrated.  Isolation is.  It would be helpful to explain a little.

> #### Transactions: Are They Overrated?

Author: Good point. It was to improve on "What ArcticDB is not" which was weird imo.

- ArcticDB is designed for high throughput analytical workloads
- It is not a transactional database
- Most analytical workflows can be constructed to run without needing transactions
- So why pay the cost of transactions when they are often not needed?

## Getting Started

This section will cover installation, setup and basic usage. More details on basics and advanced features can be found in the [tutorials](tutorials/fundamentals.md) section.

### Installation

> ArcticDB supports Python 3.6 - 3.11. To install, simply run:

Author: Might change is to 3.7 to 3.11 if we are thinking of retiring 3.6 support anyway

> ArcticDB supports Python 3.6 - 3.11. To install, simply run:

Reviewer 2: This page is part of the versioned docs, so make the same as the current ArcticDB version

```python
pip install arcticdb
```

### Setup

ArcticDB is a storage engine designed for object storage and also supports local-disk storage using LMDB.

!!! Storage Compatibility

    ArcticDB supports any S3 API compatible storage, including AWS and Azure, and storage appliances like [VAST Universal Storage](https://vastdata.com/) and [Pure Storage](https://purestorage.com/).

    ArcticDB also supports LMDB for local/file based storage - to use LMDB, pass an LMDB path as the URI: `adb.Arctic('lmdb://path/to/desired/database')`.

To get started, we can import ArcticDB and instantiate it:

```python
import arcticdb as adb

> uri = "insert your uri string here"

Reviewer: I would put a realistic looking uri here.
It really helps drive the point of how easy it is to setup Arctic

```python
library = ac.get_library('data', create_if_missing=True)
```

!!! info "ArcticDB Static & Dynamic Schemas"

    ArcticDB does not need data schemas, unlike many other databases. You can write any DataFrame and read it back later. If the shape of the data is changed and then written again, it will all just work. Nice and simple.

    The one exception where schemas are needed is in the case of functions that modify existing symbols: `update` and `append`. When modifying a symbol, the new data must have the same schema as the existing data. The schema here means the index type and the name, order, and type of each column in the DataFrame. In other words when you are appending new rows they must look like the existing rows. This is the default option and is called `static schema`.

    However, if you need to add, remove or change the type of columns via `update` or `append`, then you can do that. You simply need to create the library with the `dynamic_schema` option set. See the `library_options` parameter of the ([`create_library`](api/arctic/#arcticdb.Arctic.create_library)) method.

>     So you have the best of both worlds - you can either enforce a static schema on your data so it cannot change by modifying operations, or allow it to be flexible.

Reviewer 3: I find this misleading as if you can change from static->dynamic (even though the next line explains that it's set at creation time)

    
    The choice to use static or dynamic schemas must be set at library creation time.

    In this section we are using `static schema`, just to be clear.

### Reading And Writing Data

Now we have a library set up, we can get to reading and writing data. ArcticDB exposes a set of simple functions to enable DataFrame storage. 

Let's first look at writing a DataFrame to storage:

```python
# 50 columns, 25 rows, random data, datetime indexed.
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
from datetime import datetime
cols = ['COL_%d' % i for i in range(50)]
df = pd.DataFrame(np.random.randint(0, 50, size=(25, 50)), columns=cols)
df.index = pd.date_range(datetime(2000, 1, 1, 5), periods=25, freq="H")
df.head(5)
```
_output (the first 5 rows of the data)_
```
                     COL_0  COL_1  COL_2  COL_3  COL_4  COL_5  COL_6  COL_7  ...
2000-01-01 05:00:00     18     48     10     16     38     34     25     44  ...
2000-01-01 06:00:00     48     10     24     45     22     36     30     19  ...
2000-01-01 07:00:00     25     16     36     29     25      9     48      2  ...
2000-01-01 08:00:00     38     21      2      1     37      6     31     31  ...

> 2000-01-01 09:00:00     45     17     39     47     47     11     33     31  ...

Reviewer 3: As a user I find it better when the examples are in a single snippet that I can copy/paste, rather than having to search the docs for the relative pieces and stich something working myself. I'd make one complete example creating a dataframe, creating arctic instance and library, storing the symbol and reading it back all in once place. And place the expected output below that.

```

Write the DataFrame:

```python
library.write('test_frame', df)
```
_output (information about what was written)_
```
VersionedItem(symbol=test_frame,library=data,data=n/a,version=0,metadata=None,host=<host>)
```

The `'test_frame'` DataFrame will be used for the remainder of this guide.

!!! info "ArcticDB index"

    When writing Pandas DataFrames, ArcticDB supports the following index types:
    
    * `pandas.Index` containing `int64` or `float64` (or the corresponding dedicated types `Int64Index`, `UInt64Index` and `Float64Index`)
    * `RangeIndex` with the restrictions noted below
    * `DatetimeIndex`
    * `MultiIndex` composed of above supported types
    

>     Currently, ArcticDB allows `append()`-ing to a `RangeIndex` only with a continuing `RangeIndex` (i.e. the appending `RangeIndex.start` == `RangeIndex.stop` of the existing data and they have the same `RangeIndex.step`). If a DataFrame with a non-continuing `RangeIndex` is passed to `append()`, ArcticDB does _not_ convert it `Int64Index` like Pandas and will produce an error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Currently, ArcticDB allows `append()`-ing to a `RangeIndex` only with a continuing `RangeIndex` (i.e. the appending `RangeIndex.start` == `RangeIndex.stop` of the existing data and they have the same `RangeIndex.step`). If a DataFrame with a non-continuing `RangeIndex` is passed to `append()`, ArcticDB does _not_ convert it `pd.Index` like Pandas and will produce an error.
```
